Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a malignant biliary tract epithelium tumor. The programmed death-1 (PD-1)/programmed receptor-ligand 1 (PD-L1) signaling pathway has been implicated as an immune escape mechanism in several cancers. The present study aimed to assess the expression of PD-L1 on human CCA cell lines and its potential role in suppressing CD8(+) T- cell function. A panel of intrahepatic CCA cell lines was evaluated for immune regulatory checkpoint ligands and inflammation markers. Effects of pro-inflammatory cytokine, interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), on the expression of immune regulatory checkpoint ligands and inflammation markers were determined. The PD-L1 function was measured by co-culturing CCA cells with lymphocytes. Most of the selected Thai CCA cell lines, including HuCCA-1, RMCCA-1, KKU-100, and KKU-213, expressed higher PD-L1 than normal cholangiocyte MMNK-1 and ANK-1 cells. Both PD-L1 and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expressions were highest in HuCCA-1 cells. A 48 h treatment with IFN-gamma increased the expression of PD-L1 and COX-2 in CCA cells. The expression of CTLA-4 ligands, including H7-1 and H7-2, did not change after IFN-gamma treatment. Rofecoxib, a specific COX-2 inhibitor, mitigated IFN-gamma-induced PD-L1 expression. After 48 h co-incubation, CD8(+) T-cell apoptosis was increased as compared to the control group. Pretreatment of CCA cells with IFN-gamma further increased CD8(+) T-cell apoptosis. Pembrolizumab, an anti-PD-1 antibody, mitigated CCA cell escape phenomenon. The inhibition of T-cell-mediated immune response via the PD-L1/PD-1 axis are evidenced in intrahepatic CCA. Immunotherapy with checkpoint inhibitor offers a potentially therapeutic strategy for CCA patients; however, further in vivo and clinical studies are required.
Evidence indicates that most cancer deaths are caused by tumor invasion and metastasis. Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a tumor of the bile duct epithelium characterized by slow growth, rapid metastasis and poor prognosis. Caged xanthones are extracted from gamboge, a dry resin exuded by Garcinia hanbury. These compounds have been reported to be cytotoxic to several types of cancer cells, without affecting normal cells. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of isomorellin on the inhibition of CCA cell (KKU-100) viability, migration, invasion and the expression of invasion-regulated proteins. Cytotoxicity of isomorellin was evaluated using a sulforhodamine B assay. The anti-migratory and anti-invasive effects of isomorellin on KKU-100 cells were assessed using wound healing and chamber invasion assays, respectively. Furthermore, the activities of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)-2 and -9, and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) were also investigated. The expression levels of proteins regulating invasion were determined via western blot analysis. The cell viability of KKU-100 cells was decreased following treatment with isomorellin in a dose-dependent manner, with IC50 values at 24, 48 and 72 h of 3.46+/-0.19, 3.78+/-0.02 and 4.01+/-0.01 microM, respectively. Wound healing and chamber invasion assays indicated that isomorellin significantly inhibited KKU-100 cell migration and invasion in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, isomorellin significantly inhibited cancer cell migration and invasion abilities via focal adhesion kinase (FAK), protein kinase C (PKC), the phosphorylated (p)-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB expression and translocation to the nucleus, thus resulting in downregulation of MMP-2, uPA and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression. Therefore, inhibition of MMP-2, uPA and COX-2 expression may result in decreased CCA cell invasion ability. These data demonstrated for the first time that the suppression of KKU-100 cell viability, invasion and migration, and downregulation of NF-kappaB, MMP-2, uPA and the p-p38 MAPK pathway, may result in isomorellin-mediated anti-invasiveness.
Clonorchis sinensis could induce inflammation, epithelial hyperplasia and fibrosis in the intrahepatic bile duct as a food-borne parasite, which was associated with the development of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). Praziquantel was the most effective drug on treatment of this kind of parasite. However, new drugs with minimal toxicity to the host were urgently needed due to the side effects of Praziquantel and its CCA risk. In this study, helminth mitochondria respiratory chain blocker Wortmannilatone F (WF) and IL-8 analogue CXCL8 (3-72) K11R/G31P were used to treat BALB/C mice infected by Clonorchis sinensis. We investigated the gross and histopathological morphology of the liver, inflammation-associated cytokine IL-6, lipid peroxidation-related proteins cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), collagen fiber accumulation and fibroblast-specific protein 1 (FSP1), malignant markers proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and cytokeratin 19 (CK19), as well as the disinfection effect on these parasites in vitro. WF inhibited and killed the worms dramatically, and the combination of WF with G31P improved the condition of the hepatobiliary duct tissue greatly. These outcomes indicated that the combination of WF and G31P was a potential therapeutic method to treat the Clonorchis sinensis infection.
BACKGROUND: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), consisting of intrahepatic (IHCCA), perihilar (PHCCA), and distal (DCCA) CCA, is a type of highly aggressive malignancy with a very dismal prognosis. Potential biomarkers and drug targets of CCA are urgently needed. As a new member of the Annexin (ANXA) family, the role of ANXA10 in the progression and prognosis of CCA is unknown. METHODS: Potential PHCCA biomarkers were screened by transcriptome sequencing of 5 pairs of PHCCA and adjacent tissues. The clinical significance of ANXA10 was evaluated by analyzing its correlation with clinicopathological variables, and the prognostic value of ANXA10 was evaluated with univariate and multivariate analyses. The function of ANXA10 in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), proliferation, invasion and metastasis was detected with in vitro and in vivo experiments. Moreover, we screened the key molecule in ANXA10-induced CCA progression by mRNA sequencing and evaluated the correlation between PLA2G4A and ANXA10. The effect of PLA2G4A downstream signaling, including Cyclooxygenase 2, Prostaglandin E2(PGE2) and Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3), on EMT and metastasis was further detected with in vitro and in vivo experiments. FINDINGS: ANXA10 expression was upregulated in PHCCA and DCCA but not in IHCCA. High ANXA10 expression was significantly associated with poor tumor differentiation and prognosis. ANXA10 promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion of the PHCCA cells. PLA2G4A expression was regulated by ANXA10 and high PLA2G4A predicted poor prognosis in PHCCA and DCCA. ANXA10 facilitated EMT and promoted metastasis by upregulating PLA2G4A expression, thus increasing PGE2 levels and activating STAT3. INTERPRETATION: ANXA10 was an independent prognostic biomarker of PHCCA and DCCA but not IHCCA. ANXA10 promoted the progression of PHCCA and facilitated metastasis by promoting the EMT process via the PLA2G4A/PGE2/STAT3 pathway. ANXA10, PLA2G4A and their downstream molecules, such as COX2 and PGE2, may be promising drug targets of PHCCA and DCCA.
BACKGROUND: Bile duct cancer is characterized by fast metastasis and invasion and has been regarded as one of the most aggressive tumors due to the absence of effective diagnosis at an early stage. Therefore, it is in the urgent demand to explore novel diagnostic approaches and therapeutic strategies for bile duct cancer to improve patient survival. Raddeanin A (RA) is extracted from the anemone raddeana regel and has been demonstrated to play antitumor roles in various cancers. AIM: To investigate the effects of RA treatment on bile duct cancer cells. METHODS: In this study, four cholangiocarcinoma cell lines (RBE, LIPF155C, LIPF178C, and LICCF) treated with RA were used to test the cell viability. The RA-associated cell functional analysis, 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) effectiveness as well as cell cycle- and apoptosis-related protein expression were investigated. RESULTS: RA reduced cell viability in a dose-dependent pattern in four cell lines, and the migration and colony formation abilities were also impaired by RA in RBE and LIPF155C cell lines. RA sensitized cell lines to 5-Fu treatment and enhanced the effects of 5-Fu in cholangiocarcinoma. Also, RA decreased protein expression of Wee1, while the combinational effect of RA and 5-Fu decreased protein expressions of cyclooxygenase-2, B cell lymphoma 2, and Wee1 but increased protein levels of Bax, cyclin D1, and cyclin E. CONCLUSION: Taken together, the results suggest that RA acts as an anti-cancer agent and enhancer of 5-Fu in bile duct cancer cells via regulating multiple cell cycle and apoptosis-related proteins. This finding provides novel clues to exploring a novel antitumor drug for bile duct cancer.
BACKGROUND: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can suppress the proliferation of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) cells in vitro through inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2. However, the effects of aspirin and NSAIDs on the risk of CCA remain unclear. We performed this meta-analysis to assess the risk of biliary tract cancers in patients who take aspirin and/or NSAIDs. METHODS: A systematic review was conducted utilizing MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane databases from inception through October 2017 to identify studies that assessed the association of aspirin and/or NSAIDs use with risk of biliary tract cancers including CCA, gallbladder cancer and ampulla of Vater cancer. Effect estimates from the studies were extracted and combined using the random-effect, generic inverse variance method of DerSimonian and Laird. RESULTS: Five observational studies with a total of 9 200 653 patients were enrolled. The pooled OR of CCA in patients with aspirin use was 0.56 (95% CI, 0.32-0.96). Egger's regression asymmetry test was performed and showed no publication bias for the association between aspirin use and CCA with P = 0.42. There was no significant association between NSAIDs use and CCA, with a pooled OR of 0.79 (95% CI, 0.28-2.21). One study showed a significant association between aspirin use and reduced risk of gallbladder cancer with OR of 0.37 (0.17-0.80). However, there was no significant association between aspirin and ampulla of Vater cancer with OR of 0.22 (0.03-1.65). CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates a significant association between aspirin use and a 0.56-fold decreased risk of CCA. However, there is no association between the use of NSAIDs and CCA.
Various CD44 isoforms are expressed in several cancer stem cells during tumor progression and metastasis. In particular, CD44 variant 9 (CD44v9) is highly expressed in chronic inflammation-induced cancer. We investigated the expression of CD44v9 and assessed whether CD44v9 is a selective biomarker of human cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). The expression profile of CD44v9 was evaluated in human liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini-related CCA (OV-CCA) tissues, human CCA (independent of OV infection, non-OV-CCA) tissues, and normal liver tissues. CD44v9 overexpression was detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in CCA tissues. There was a higher level of CD44v9 expression and IHC score in OV-CCA tissues than in non-OV-CCA tissues, and there was no CD44v9 staining in the bile duct cells of normal liver tissues. In addition, we observed significantly higher expression of inflammation-related markers, such as S100P and COX-2, in OV-CCA tissues compared to that in non-OV and normal liver tissues. Thus, these findings suggest that CD44v9 may be a novel candidate CCA stem cell marker and may be related to inflammation-associated cancer development.
Conditionally replicating adenoviral vectors constructed with tumor-specific promoters (TSPs) offers a viable tool for the treatment of cholangiocarcinoma. The aim of the present study was to investigate cholangiocarcinoma-specific TSPs that remain active in adenoviral constructs in gene therapy. The mRNA expressions of cyclooxygenase-2, cytokeratin-19 (CK19), mucin-1, midkine and telomerase reverse transcriptase were determined in human cholangiocarcinoma cell lines, primary human hepatocytes and cholangiocytes using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The candidate promoters constructed in adenoviral vectors were analyzed for their activities in cholangiocarcinoma cell lines, primary human hepatocytes and cholangiocytes using dual-luciferase reporter assays. The mRNA expression of CK19 was markedly higher in the QBC939 cell line, indicating specificity to cholangiocarcinoma. Moreover, the promoter activity of CK19 in the adenoviral vector in infected cholangiocarcinoma cells was found to be significantly stronger compared with that in infected primary human hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. CK19 may be implicated in the pathogenesis of cholangiocarcinoma, as demonstrated by the stronger activity of its promoter, as well as the higher expression of mRNA in tumor cells. Therefore, the use of the promoter sequence of the CK19 gene may represent a potential tool in cholangiocarcinoma-specific adenoviral gene therapy.
BACKGROUND: An (18)F-tagged NSAID analog was prepared for use as a probe for COX-2 expression, which is associated with tumor development. METHODS: The in vivo uptake of celecoxib was monitored with ortho-[(18)F]fluorocelecoxib using positron emission tomography (PET). The binding affinity of ortho-[(18)F]fluorocelecoxib to COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes were assessed using the competitor celecoxib. RESULTS: The IC50 values were 0.039 muM and 0.024 muM, respectively. A selectivity index of 1.63 was obtained (COX-2 vs COX-1). COX-2 overexpressed cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) murine cells took up more ortho-[(18)F]fluorocelecoxib than that by usual CCA cells from 10 to 60 minutes post incubation. Competitive inhibition (blocking) of the tracer uptake of ortho-[(18)F]fluorocelecoxib in the presence of celecoxib by the COX-2 overexpressed CCA cells and the usual CCA cells gave the IC50 values of 0.5 muM and 46.5 muM, respectively. Based on the in vitro accumulation data and in vivo metabolism half-life (30 min), PET scanning was performed 30-60 min after the administration of ortho-[(18)F]fluorocelecoxib through the tail vein. Study of ortho-[(18)F]F-celecoxib in the CCA rats showed a tumor to normal ratio (T/N) of 1.38+/-0.23 and uptake dose of 1.14+/-0.25 (%ID/g). CONCLUSION: The inferior in vivo blocking results of 1.48+/-0.20 (T/N) and 1.18+/-0.22 (%ID/g) suggests that the nonspecificity is associated with the complex role of peroxidase or the binding to carbonic anhydrase.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a malignant tumor with high incidence and an average age of onset of 50-70 years old. However, at present there is no effective treatment for this disease. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of a c-Met inhibitor, PF-2341066 and a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, celecoxib, on c-Met and COX-2 expression, proliferation and apoptosis. The results demonstrated that c-Met and COX-2 are highly expressed in hepatobiliary calculus with cholangiocarcinoma. PF-2341066 was able to downregulate the expression of c-Met and COX-2 in a dose-dependent manner at the mRNA and protein levels in human cholangiocarcinoma QBC939 cells. Furthermore, combined treatment with PF-2341066 with celecoxib downregulated the mRNA expression of both genes, inhibited cell proliferation and promoted cell apoptosis. It was also demonstrated that PF-2341066 and celecoxib treatment was able to restrict the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). The results of the present study suggest that PF-2341066 and celecoxib may inhibit the development of cholangiocarcinoma by downregulating the expression of c-Met and COX-2 to inhibit cell proliferation, promote apoptosis and prevent VEGF-mediated tumor angiogenesis. Co-treatment with PF-2341066 and celecoxib may be a potential therapeutic strategy for hepatobiliary calculus with cholangiocarcinoma.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a malignant transformation of biliary epithelial cells. It is a slow growing tumor, but is also highly metastatic with a poor prognosis. Bile acids are known to transactivate the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in cholangiocytes and induce cyclooxygenase-2 expression. The protein expression profiles of bile acid-treated CCA cells were studied using a proteomic approach. To elucidate the possible mechanisms involved in the bile acid-mediated enhancement of CCA cell migration, the effects of six bile acids, including cholic, deoxycholic, taurocholic, taurodeoxycholic, glycocholic and glycodeoxycholic acid, on the migration of CCA cells were examined in vitro using wound healing assays. Subsequently, the possible proteins involved in enhanced CCA cell migration were investigated using a proteomic approach. Changes to the protein expression profiles of CCA cells following bile acid treatment was examined using two-dimensional electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. The results demonstrated that cholic and deoxycholic acid significantly enhanced the migration of CCA cells, compared with the treated MMNK-1 control cells. CCA cells had 77 overexpressed protein spots following cholic acid treatment, and 50 protein spots following deoxycholic acid treatment, compared with the treated MMNK-1 control cells. Liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry analysis revealed that coiled-coil domain containing 25 (CCDC25) was significantly overexpressed in cholic acid-treated CCA cells compared with in cholic acid-treated control cells. When the expression levels of CCDC25 were investigated using western blot analysis, CCDC25 was demonstrated to be highly expressed in CCA tissues, but not in the adjacent non-cancerous tissue samples. The identified proteins were further analyzed for protein-chemical interactions using STITCH version 3.1 software. CCDC25 protein was identified to be associated with Son of sevenless homolog 1 and growth factor receptor-bound protein 2, which are involved in EGFR signaling. The results of the present study demonstrated that following cholic acid treatment, CCDC25 is overexpressed in CCA cells, which is associated with significantly enhanced cell migration. This suggests that CCDC25 is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of patients with CCA.
Boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) is a binary therapy that employs neutron irradiation on the boron agents to release high-energy helium and alpha particles to kill cancer cells. An optimal response to BNCT depends critically on the time point of maximal (10)B accumulation and highest tumor to normal ratio (T/N) for performing the neutron irradiation. The aggressive cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) representing a liver cancer that overexpresses COX-2 enzyme is aimed to be targeted by COX-2 selective boron carrier, fenbufen boronopinacol (FBPin). Two main works were performed including: 1) chemical synthesis of FBPin as the boron carrier and 2) radiochemical labeling with F-18 to provide the radiofluoro congener, m-[(18)F]fluorofenbufen ester boronopinacol (m-[(18)F]FFBPin), to assess the binding affinity, cellular accumulation level and distribution profile in CCA rats. FBPin was prepared from bromofenbufen via 3 steps with 82% yield. The binding assay employed [(18)F]FFBPin to compete FBPin for binding to COX-1 (IC50=0.91+/-0.68muM) and COX-2 (IC50=0.33+/-0.24muM). [(18)F]FFBPin-derived 60-min dynamic PET scans predict the (10)B-accumulation of 0.8-1.2ppm in liver and 1.2-1.8ppm in tumor and tumor to normal ratio=1.38+/-0.12. BNCT was performed 40-55min post intravenous administration of FBPin (20-30mg) in the CCA rats. CCA rats treated with BNCT display more tumor reduction than that by NCT with respect of 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy glucose uptake in the tumor region of interest, 20.83+/-3.00% (n=12) vs. 12.83+/-3.79% (n=10), P=0.05. The visualizing agent [(18)F]FFBPin resembles FBPin to generate the time-dependent boron concentration profile. Optimal neutron irradiation period is thus determinable for BNCT. A boron-substituted agent based on COX-2-binding features has been prepared. The moderate COX-2/COX-1 selectivity index of 2.78 allows a fair tumor selectivity index of 1.38 with a mild cardiovascular effect. The therapeutic effect from FBPin with BNCT warrants a proper COX-2 targeting of boron NSAIDs.
BACKGROUND: Biphenotypic hepatocellular carcinoma-cholangiocarcinoma (HCC-CC) is an uncommon primary liver neoplasm. Due to limitations in radiologic imaging for the diagnosis of this condition, biopsy is a common method for diagnosis, which is invasive and holds potential complications. To identify alternative means for obtaining the diagnosis and assessing the prognosis of this condition, we evaluated biomarkers for biphenotypic HCC-CC using a genetic database. METHODS: To evaluate the genetic associations with each variable we utilized GeneCards((R)), The Human Gene Compendium (http://www.genecards.org). The results of our search were entered into the Pathway Interaction Database from the National Cancer Institute (PID-NCI) (http://pid.nci.nih.gov), to generate a biomolecule interaction map. RESULTS: The results of our query yielded 690 genes for HCC, 98 genes for CC and 50 genes for HCC-CC. Genes depicted in this analysis demonstrate the role of hormonal regulation, embryonic development, cell surface adhesion, cytokeratin stability, mucin production, metalloproteinase regulation, Ras signaling, metabolism and apoptosis. Examples of previously described markers included hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), mesenchymal epithelial transition (MET) and Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS). Novel markers included phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA), GPC3, choline kinase alpha (CHKA), prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2), telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT), myeloid cell leukemia 1 (MCL1) and N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2). CONCLUSIONS: GeneCards is a useful research tool in the genetic analysis of low frequency malignancies. Utilizing this tool we identified several biomarkers are methods for diagnosing HCC-CC. Finally, utilizing these methods, HCC-CC was found to be predominantly a subtype of CC.
Parasitic diseases remain an unarguable public health problem worldwide. Liver fluke Clonorchis sinensis is a high risk pathogenic parasitic helminth which is endemic predominantly in Asian countries, including Korea, China, Taiwan, Vietnam, and the far eastern parts of Russia, and is still actively transmitted. According to the earlier 8th National Survey on the Prevalence of Intestinal Parasitic Infections in 2012, C. sinensis was revealed as the parasite with highest prevalence of 1.86% in general population among all parasite species surveyed in Korea. This fluke is now classified under one of the definite Group 1 human biological agents (carcinogens) by International Agency of Research on Cancer (IARC) along with two other parasites, Opisthorchis viverrini and Schistosoma haematobium. C. sinensis infestation is mainly linked to liver and biliary disorders, especially cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). For the purposes of this mini-review, we will only focus on C. sinensis and review pathogenesis and carcinogenesis of clonorchiasis, disease condition by C. sinensis infestation, and association between C. sinensis infestation and CCA. In this presentation, we briefly consider the current scientific status for progression of CCA by heavy C. sinensis infestation from the food-borne trematode and development of CCA. [BMB Reports 2016; 49(11): 590-597].
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT) mediated by hematoporphyrin derivative (HPD) on apoptosis and invasion of cholangiocarcinoma QBC939 cell lines. METHODS: In vitro cultured cholangiocarcinoma QBC939 cell line was exposed to 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 mug/ml HPD with 5, 10, and 15 J/cm2 light intensity, respectively. The optical density at 450 nm of the QBC939 cells was measured by CCK8 assay and its growth inhibition ratio was calculated. Flow cytometry and transwell migration assay were applied to detect cell apoptosis and invasion respectively. RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry analyses were used to detect expressions of vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was carried out to examine the secretion of VEGF-C and COX-2 in QBC939 cells. RESULTS: Exposure to HPD-PDT can significantly suppress the growth of QBC939 cells (all P<0.05). HPD-PDT can promote apoptosis of QBC939 cells at the early stage. When the concentration of HPD was 2 mug/ml and light irradiation was 5 J/cm2, HPD-PDT had no obvious inhibitory effect on QBC939 cell growth, but can obviously inhibit cell invasion, and significant difference was observed between the HPD-PDT and control groups (P<0.01). The HPD-PDT can reduce the mRNA and protein expressions of VEGF-C, COX-2, and PCNA, and decrease the secretion of VEGF-C and COX-2 in QBC939 cells. CONCLUSION: PDT could promote apoptosis and inhibit growth and invasion of cholangiocarcinoma cells QBC939 in vitro.
Clonorchis sinensis is a high-risk pathogenic helminth that strongly provokes inflammation, epithelial hyperplasia, periductal fibrosis, and even cholangiocarcinoma in chronically infected individuals. Chronic inflammation is associated with an increased risk of various cancers due to the disruption of redox homeostasis. Accordingly, the present study was conducted to examine the time course relationship between histopathological changes and the appearance of oxidative stress markers, including lipid peroxidation, enzymes involved in lipid peroxidation, and mutagenic DNA adducts in the livers of mice infected with C. sinensis, as well as proinflammatory cytokines in infected mouse sera. Histopathological phenotypes such as bile duct epithelial hyperplasia, periductal fibrosis, edema and inflammatory infiltration increased in infected livers in a time-dependent manner. Intense immunoreactivity of lipid peroxidation products (4-hydroxy-2-nonenal; malondialdehyde), cyclooxygenase-2, 5-lipoxygenase and 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine were concomitantly observed in these injured regions. We also found elevated expressions of cyclooxygenase-2 and 5-lipoxygenase in C. sinensis excretory-secretory product-treated cholangiocarcinoma cells. Moreover, the levels of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, ILbeta-1 and IL-6 were differentially upregulated in infected sera. With regard to oxidative stress-mediated carcinogenesis, our findings suggest that C. sinensis infestation may disrupt host redox homeostasis, creating a damaging environment that favors the development of advanced hepatobiliary diseases such as clonorchiasis-associated cholangiocarcinoma.
Chronic inflammation has been known to be a risk for many kinds of cancers, including pancreatic and biliary tract cancer. Recently, inflammatory process has emerged as a key mediator of cancer development and progression. Many efforts with experimental results have been given to identify the underlying mechanisms that contribute to inflammation-induced tumorigenesis. Diverse inflammatory pathways have been investigated and inhibitors for inflammation-related signaling pathways have been developed for cancer treatment. This review will summarize recent outcomes about this distinctive process in pancreatic and biliary tract cancer. Taking this evidence into consideration, modulation of inflammatory process will provide useful options for pancreatic and biliary tract cancer treatment.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a rare, but highly malignant primary hepatobiliary cancer with a very poor prognosis and limited treatment options. Our recent studies reported that conjugated bile acids (CBAs) promote the invasive growth of CCA via activation of sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2). Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2)-derived prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is the most abundant prostaglandin in various human malignancies including CCA. Previous studies have indicated that COX-2 was highly expressed in CCA tissues, and the survival rate of CCA patients was negatively associated with high COX-2 expression levels. It has also been reported that CBAs induce COX-2 expression, whereas free bile acids inhibit COX-2 expression in CCA mouse models. However, the underlying cellular mechanisms and connection between S1PR2 and COX-2 expression in CCA cells have still not been fully elucidated. In the current study, we examined the role of S1PR2 in conjugated bile acid (taurocholate, (TCA))-induced COX-2 expression in a human HuCCT1 CCA cell line and further identified the potential underlying cellular mechanisms. The results indicated that TCA-induced invasive growth of human CCA cells was correlated with S1PR2-medated up-regulation of COX-2 expression and PGE2 production. Inhibition of S1PR2 activation with chemical antagonist (JTE-013) or down-regulation of S1PR2 expression with gene-specific shRNA not only reduced COX-2 expression, but also inhibited TCA-induced activation of EGFR and the ERK1/2/Akt-NF-kappaB signaling cascade. In conclusion, S1PR2 plays a critical role in TCA-induced COX-2 expression and CCA growth and may represent a novel therapeutic target for CCA.
Genetic risk factors for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) remain poorly understood. We assessed the effect of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of genes modulating inflammation or carcinogenesis on CCA risk and survival. We conducted a case-control, candidate gene association study of 370 CCA patients and 740 age-, sex-, and residential area-matched healthy controls. Eighteen functional or putatively functional SNPs in nine genes were genotyped. The log-additive genotype effects of SNPs on CCA risk and survival were determined using logistic regression and the log-rank test, respectively. Initial analysis identified significant associations between SNP rs2143417 and rs689466 in cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) and CCA risk, after adjusting for multiple comparisons (cutoff of P = 0.0028). However, these findings were not replicated in another independent cohort of 212 CCA cases and 424 matched controls. No significant association was found between any SNP and survival of CCA patients. Although COX-2 has been shown to contribute to cholangiocarcinogenesis, the COX-2 SNPs tested were not associated with risk of CCA. This study shows a lack of association between variants of genes related to inflammation and carcinogenesis and CCA risk and survival. Other factors than these genetic variants may play more important roles in CCA risk and survival.
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and clinical significance of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) and vascular en-dothelial growth factor C (VEGF-C) in cholangiocarcinomas at differ-ent clinical and pathological stages. Eighty cholangiocarcinoma sam-ples of patients treated with surgery between January 2012 and January 2014 were collected. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect COX-2 and VEGF-C expression at different clinical and pathological stages. ELISA, real-time PCR, invasive chambers, and MTT assay were ap-plied in cultured cholangiocarcinoma cells treated with a COX-2 inhib-itor. Expression of COX-2 and VEGF-C correlated positively with the clinical TNM stage but did not correlate with the differentiation status. Inhibition of COX-2 activity reduced VEGF-C mRNA expression and secretion in cholangiocarcinoma cells and decreased their migration but not proliferation. Because of its ability to inhibit invasion, COX-2 could be a new target for treatment of cholangiocarcinoma.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is involved in cholangiocarcinoma cell proliferation, migration and invasion through E prostanoid receptors, including EP1, EP2 and EP4. However, the functions and the mechanisms of those splice variants of EP3 receptors in promoting liver cancer cell growth and invasion remain to be elucidated. In our previous studies, four isoforms of EP3 receptors, EP3-4, EP3-5, EP3-6 and EP3-7 receptors, were detected in CCLP1 and HuCCT1 cells. However, the functions of these receptors in these cells have yet to be determined. It was reported that beta-catenin is closely correlated with malignancy, including cholangiocarcinoma. The present study was designed to examine the effects of 4-7 isoforms of EP3 in promoting cholangiocarcinoma progression and the mechanisms by which PGE2 increases beta-catenin protein via EP3 receptors. The results showed that PGE2 promotes cholangiocarcinoma progression via the upregulation of beta-catenin protein, and the EP3-4 receptor pathway is mainly responsible for this regulation. These findings reveal that PGE2 upregulated the cholangiocarcinoma cell beta-catenin protein through the EP3-4R/Src/EGFR/PI3K/AKT/GSK-3beta pathway. The present study identified the functions of EP3 and the mechanisms by which PGE2 regulates beta-catenin expression and promoted cholangiocarcinoma cell growth and invasion.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) involves in progression of various chronic inflammation-related cancers including cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). This study aimed to determine the role of PGE2 signaling, its biosynthesis-related enzymes in a clinical prognosis, and their targeted inhibition in CCA progression. The immunohistochemical staining of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, COX-2, mPGES-1, EP1, and EP4 was examined in CCA tissues, and their expressions were compared with clinicopathological parameters. The effect of PGE2 on levels of its signaling molecules was examined in CCA cell lines using proteome profiler array. The suppression of mPGES-1 using a small-molecule inhibitor (CAY10526) and small interfering RNA (siRNA) was determined for growth and migration ability in CCA cells. The results indicated that strong expressions of COX-1, COX-2, mPGES-1, EP1, and EP4 were found in CCA tissues as 87.5, 47.5, 52.5, 55, and 80 % of frequencies, respectively. High mPGES-1 expression was significantly correlated with tumor stages III-IV (p = 0.001), lymph node metastasis (p = 0.004), shorter survival (p = 0.009), and prognostic indicator of CCA patients (HR = 2.512, p = 0.041). Expressions of COX-1, COX-2, and EP receptors did not correlate with data tested from patients. PGE2 markedly enhanced protein levels of integrinalpha6, VE-cadherin, Jagged1, and Notch3, and CAY10526 suppressed those protein levels as well as PGE2 production in CCA cells. CAY10526 and siRNA mPGES-1 markedly suppressed mPGES-1 protein levels, growth, and migration abilities of CCA cell lines. In conclusion, PGE2 signaling strongly promotes CCA progression. Therefore, inhibition of PGE2 synthesis by suppression of its biosynthesis-related enzymes could be useful for prevention and treatment of CCA.
UNLABELLED: miRNAs are a group of small, noncoding RNAs that modulate the translation of genes by binding to specific target sites in the target mRNA. This study investigated the biologic function and molecular mechanism of miR-21 in human cholangiocarcinoma. In situ hybridization analysis of human cholangiocarcinoma specimens showed increased miR-21 in cholangiocarcinoma tissue compared with the noncancerous biliary epithelium. Lentiviral transduction of miR-21 enhanced human cholangiocarcinoma cell growth and clonogenic efficiency in vitro, whereas inhibition of miR-21 decreased these parameters. Overexpression of miR-21 also promoted cholangiocarcinoma growth using an in vivo xenograft model system. The NAD(+)-linked 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH/HPGD), a key enzyme that converts the protumorigenic prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) to its biologically inactive metabolite, was identified as a direct target of miR-21 in cholangiocarcinoma cells. In parallel, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) overexpression and PGE2 treatment increased miR-21 levels and enhanced miR-21 promoter activity in human cholangiocarcinoma cells. IMPLICATIONS: Cholangiocarcinogenesis and tumor progression are regulated by a novel interplay between COX-2/PGE2 and miR-21 signaling, which converges at 15-PGDH.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), the common primary malignant tumor of bile duct epithelial cells, is unresponsive to most chemotherapeutic drugs. Diagnosis with CCA has a poor prognosis, and therefore urgently requires effective therapeutic agents. In the present study we investigated anti-cancer effects of andrographolide analogue 3A.1 (19-tert-butyldiphenylsilyl-8, 17-epoxy andrographolide) and its mechanism in human CCA cell line KKU-M213 derived from a Thai CCA patient. By 24h after exposure, the analogue 3A.1 exhibited a potent cytotoxic effect on KKU-M213 cells with an inhibition concentration 50 (IC50) of approximately 8.0microM. Analogue 3A.1 suppressed DNA topoisomerase II alpha (Topo II alpha) protein expression, arrested the cell cycle at sub G0/G1 phase, induced cleavage of DNA repair protein poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases-1 (PARP-1), and enhanced expression of tumor suppressor protein p53 and pro-apoptotic protein Bax. In addition, analogue 3A.1 induced caspase 3 activity and inhibited cyclin D1, CDK6, and COX-2 protein expression. These results suggest that andrographolide analogue 3A.1, a novel topo II inhibitor, has significant potential to be developed as a new anticancer agent for the treatment of CCA.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), a lethal disease, affects many thousands worldwide yearly. Surgical resection provides the best chance for a cure; however, only one-third of CCA patients present with a resectable tumour at the time of diagnosis. Currently, no effective chemotherapy is available for advanced CCA. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a potential oncogene expressing in human CCA tissues and represents a candidate target for treatment; however, COX-2 inhibitors increase the risk of negative cardiovascular events as application for chemoprevention aim. Here, we re-evaluated the effectiveness and safety of celecoxib, one widely used COX-2 inhibitor, in treating CCA. We demonstrated that celecoxib exhibited an anti-proliferative effect on CGCCA cells via cell cycle arrest at G2 phase and apoptosis induction. Treatment for 5 weeks high dose celecoxib (160 mg/kg) significantly repressed thioacetamide-induced CCA tumour growth in rats as monitored by animal positron emission tomography through apoptosis induction. No obviously observable side effects were noted during the therapeutic period. As retrospectively reviewing 78 intrahepatic mass-forming CCA patients, their survival was strongly and negatively associated with a positive resection margin and high COX-2 expression. Based on our result, we concluded that short-term high dose celecoxib may be a promising therapeutic regimen for CCA. Yet its clinical application still needs more studies to prove its safety.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) occurs frequently in primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1) induced by inflammation are believed to mediate prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production thereby promoting carcinogenesis. Their expression in PSC-associated CCA tissues and non-neoplastic bile duct epithelial cells (BDECs) in PSC was investigated. COX-2 and mPGES-1 levels in 15 PSC patients (7 with CCA) were scored using immunohistochemical staining. The results were compared with those obtained in CCA tissues and non-neoplastic BDECs (controls) of 15 sporadic CCA patients. Non-neoplastic BDECs from large and small bile ducts were investigated separately. The mRNA expression levels of COX-2 and mPGES-1 in CCA tissues were analyzed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Ki-67 immunostaining was performed to evaluate cell proliferation. COX-2 was strongly expressed in PSC-associated CCA tissues and non-neoplastic BDECs in PSC. This expression was significantly upregulated in both compared with sporadic CCA tissues and non-neoplastic BDECs in sporadic CCA (both P<0.01). mPGES-1 was expressed at moderate to strong levels in PSC. Compared with controls, the expression was significantly higher in non-neoplastic small BDECs (P<0.01). COX-2 mRNA levels were significantly higher in PSC-associated tissues than in sporadic CCA tissues (P<0.01). Conversely, no differences were observed in mPGES-1 mRNA levels. Ki-67 labeling indices were higher in PSC-associated CCA tissues and non-neoplastic BDECs in PSC than in controls. In conclusion, COX-2 and mPGES-1 were highly expressed in PSC-associated CCA tissues and non-neoplastic BDECs in PSC, suggesting the involvement of COX-2 and mPGES-1 in cholangiocarcinogenesis.
The results of a previous study demonstrated that prednisolone enhanced cholangiocarcinogenesis. Therefore, to clarify molecular changes during immunosuppressive cholangiocarcinogenesis, Syrian hamsters were divided into 8 groups: uninfected controls; immunosuppressed Syrian hamsters using prednisolone (P); normal Syrian hamsters administered N-nitrosodimethylamine (ND); immunosuppressed Syrian hamsters administered N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDis); normal Syrian hamsters infected with Opisthorchis viverrini (OV); immunosuppressed Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini (OVis); normal Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini and administered N-nitrosodimethylamine (CCA); and immunosuppressed Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini and administered N-nitrosodimethylamine (CCAis). Syrian hamster livers were used for analysis of tumor-related gene expression and immunohistochemistry through cytokeratin 19 (CK19) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) staining. The tumor-related gene expression results show that CCAis groups at all time points exhibited upregulation of COX-2, IL-6, SOD1, CAT and iNOS and downregulation of p53, which correlated with the predominant expression of CK19 and PCNA in liver tissue. These results suggest that prednisolone enhances cholangiocarcinoma development, which was confirmed by molecular changes.
Recent evidence has suggested an important role of miRNAs in liver biology and diseases, although the implication of miRNAs in cholangiocarcinoma remains to be defined further. This study was designed to examine the biological function and molecular mechanism of miR-101 in cholangiocarcinogenesis and tumor progression. In situ hybridization and quantitative RT-PCR were performed to determine the expression of miR-101 in human cholangiocarcinoma tissues and cell lines. Compared with noncancerous biliary epithelial cells, the expression of miR-101 is decreased in 43.5% of human cholangiocarcinoma specimens and in all three cholangiocarcinoma cell lines used in this study. Forced overexpression of miR-101 significantly inhibited cholangiocarcinoma growth in severe combined immunodeficiency mice. miR-101-overexpressed xenograft tumor tissues showed decreased capillary densities and decreased levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). The VEGF and COX-2 mRNAs were identified as the bona fide targets of miR-101 in cholangiocarcinoma cells by both computational analysis and experimental assays. miR-101 inhibits cholangiocarcinoma angiogenesis by direct targeting of VEGF mRNA 3'untranslated region and by repression of VEGF gene transcription through inhibition of COX-2. This study established a novel tumor-suppressor role of miR-101 in cholangiocarcinoma and it suggests the possibility of targeting miR-101 and related signaling pathways for future therapy.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and COX-2-induced prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) have been implicated in all stages of malignant tumorigenesis. Although many aspects of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP2) on tumor invasion have been studied, the exact mechanism of PGE2-induced MMP2 overproduction has not been clearly defined. We have previously demonstrated that PGE2-enhanced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) phosphorylation via EP1 signaling pathway involved in PGE2-induced cell proliferation. Based on the identification of the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) as an important regulator of MMP2 and Erk phosphorylate CREB at ser133, we hypothesize that CREB may be implicated in the signaling of PGE2 stimulation to MMP2 overproduction via EP1 receptor. In the study, we investigated the role of EP1 receptor on PGE2-induced MMP2 expression and delineated the signaling pathway that contributes to EP1 receptor modulation of MMP2 in human cholangiocarcinoma cells. We found PGE2 or selective EP1 receptor agonist 17-P-T-PGE2-stimulated MMP2 expression and selective EP1 receptor antagonist SC-51322 or EP1 receptor siRNA abrogated PGE2-induced MMP2 expression. Intracellular calcium chelator BAPTA-AM, the selective inhibitor of EGFR AG1478 and the selective inhibitor of Erk PD98059 blocked EP1 receptor activation-induced CREB phosphorylation and MMP2 expression. A novel dominant-negative (D-N) inhibitor protein of the CREB, termed A-CREB, attenuated EP1 receptor activation-induced MMP2 expression. Our findings suggest that PGE2-enhanced MMP2 expression is, at least in part, mediated through EP1 receptors and calcium signaling pathway-induced CREB phosphorylation in human cholangiocarcinoma cells.
We observed that free bile acids (CA, DCA, and CDCA) inhibited the growth of cholangiocarcinoma cells by promoting cell apoptosis, while the conjugated bile acids (GCA, GDCA, and GCDCA) stimulated cell growth. Consistently, we found that GDCA stimulated tumor growth and CDCA decreased tumor growth in xenografted mice. Further, the phosphorylated IkB was downregulated by free bile acids, and was upregulated by the conjugated bile acids. IL-6 and COX-2 were decreased by the free bile acids and increased by the conjugated bile acids. Collectively, these results suggest that the bile acids regulate the growth of cholangiocarcinoma by modulating NF-kB pathway.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) have been implicated in chronic inflammatory conditions and carcinogenesis. However, little is known about the biological significance of iNOS and COX-2 in cholangiocarcinoma or its precursors or metastatic lesions. We examined iNOS and COX-2 immunohisotochemical expression in 40 biliary intraepithelial neoplasias, 134 primary intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma cases, and 27 metastatic lymph nodes and analyzed the correlations with grade of atypia of biliary intraepithelial neoplasia, clinicopathological factors and outcomes of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. iNOS and COX-2 expression was highly expressed in reactive epithelium and biliary intraepithelial neoplasia. In intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, lymphatic invasion and lymph node metastasis were significantly correlated with negative iNOS expression (P = .0002, P = .0324, respectively) and positive COX-2 expression (P = .0012, P = .0063, respectively). Vascular endothelial growth factor-C expression was associated with COX-2 expression (P = .0053), but not with iNOS expression. COX-2 expression in primary intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma was higher than that in metastatic lymph nodes (P < .0001). COX-2-positive expression indicated a poor intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma outcome (P = .0273). This study indicates that iNOS and COX-2 may play roles in carcinogenesis via biliary intraepithelial neoplasia, but play different roles in metastasis of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. COX-2 may participate in a higher lymphatic invasion and metastasis via the vascular endothelial growth factor-C pathway.
Chronic infection with Opisthorchis viverrini for many years has been associated with the development of hepatobiliary diseases including cholangiocarcinoma. It is well known that inflammation is a key component of the tumor microenvironment, and that chronic inflammation plays an important role in tumorigenesis. Therefore, in this study cholangiocarcinogenesis was induced in Syrian hamsters in order to observe the cancer-related inflammation. The Syrian hamsters were divided into 5 groups: uninfected controls; normal Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini (OV); immunosuppressed Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini (OVis); normal Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini and administered N-nitrosodimethylamine (CCA); and immunosuppressed Syrian hamsters infected with O. viverrini and administered N-nitrosodimethylamine (CCAis). Syrian hamster livers were later observed for gross pathology and histopathological changes; COX2 was analyzed by immunohistochemical staining. We found a decreased number of inflammatory cells surrounding the hepatic bile duct in the OVis group, but not in the OV and CCAis groups. However, in the CCAis group (with suppressed immunity) early appearance and greater severity of cholangiocarcinoma were observed; gross pathological examination revealed many cancer nodularities on the liver surface, and histopathological studies showed the presence of cancer cells, findings which correlated with the predominant expression of COX2. The present study suggests that host immune responses are intended to ameliorate pathology, and they are also crucially associated with pathogenesis in O. viverrini infection; the unbalancing of host immunity may enhance cancer-related inflammation.
Opisthorchis viverrini is one of the risk factors for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) development and is endemic in Southeast Asia including Thailand. CCA is induced by chronic inflammation from a combination of mechanical damage, parasite secretions, and immunopathology. Chronic infection with O. viverrini has been associated with several hepatobiliary diseases which affect the development of hepatobiliary cancer and CCA. Therefore, reducing the pathogenesis from O. viverrini infection may be one of the choices to reduce the risk of cholangiocarcinoma development. Prednisolone is one of the steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that suppress inflammation, and its use has risen continuously in recent years. We therefore investigated the effect of prednisolone on pathological changes in Syrian hamster opisthorchiasis, in terms of gross and histopathological changes, worm size, eggs per gram, eggs per worm, and immunohistochemical staining for COX2. Syrian hamsters were divided into three groups: uninfected control; O. viverrini-infected (OV); and O. viverrini-infected plus prednisolone administration (OVP). The results showed an anti-inflammatory effect in the OVP group by a reduction of the inflammatory cells surrounding the intrahepatic bile ducts. However, in addition, parasite sizes for all times of observation were larger than for other groups, which was also correlated with increased eggs per worm and eggs per gram of feces. This result suggests that prednisolone is useful in suppressing inflammation in Syrian hamster opisthorchiasis, whereas it was also beneficial for parasites by enhancing their reproductive development. To clarify the mechanism of this phenomenon, further studies are under investigation.
